---
categories:
- Recognition
date: 2023-06-07 00:00:00 +0000
lang: en
original_lang: es
tags:
- network
- reconnaissance
- dns
title: DNS
---

## Main characteristics and generic function

DNS is the acronym for Domain Name System

Make a translation of domain names to IP addresses

It corresponds to one of the most important internet protocols

This type of translation is carried out to be able to remember more easily the websites to which it is accessed by legible text or related to the service or content of the web application.

### This protocol interests us

→ Obtain public information about a domain or an organization

→ Discover relationships between domains and hosts

→ Specific exploitation techniques to gain access such as DNS Spoofing.

## DNS operation

### DNS ZONE: GROUP OF RECORDS (DATA) DNS

Grouping of data related to the same domain in particular whose maintenance is delegated to an organization or individual in particular.

These dns zones contain different types of records

! [DNS Registration Types] (/ASSETS/IMG/Posts/Recognition/20241126_000258_86-1.png)

! [DNS DETAIL REGISTRATION] (/ASSETS/IMG/Posts/Recognition/20241126_000309_86-2.png)

From the user the IP address is requested to the domain name that we want to search as Google.com for example.

We send the request to a local DNS resolve that we have configured by default in our teams. Normally this server does not have the IP address unless we have already accessed before and has it cache.

This DNS resolve if it does not have the IP begins a recursive search in relation to other DNS servers to see if they know the IP.

Ask the DNS ROOT NAME SERVER to redirect the next DNS server based on the domain termination that we are looking for .com / .org / .es / etc ...

This is forward to a DNS Top-Level server with the TLD .com

This DNS server forwards the DNS server that houses the direction of Google.com, the authoritative Dns Server.

This authoritative DNS Server now if the IP of the Google.com domain indicates and returns it to us.

### How to use this in our favor?

Legitimately consulting these servers prior to the Web Server to see what information they have about the objective domain such as subdomains, emails, names, etc.

We can also do DNS spoofing to the local DNS server

## Centralops/DNSDUMPSTER

The techniques are very simple that simply consist of consulting all the information of the different DNS Servers for a specific domain.

! [Centralops Website] (/Assets/IMG/Posts/Recognition/20241126_000438_87-1.png)
_https: //centralops.net/co/_

! [Centralops details] (/ASSETS/IMG/Posts/Recognition/20241126_000450_87-2.png)

Another more complete web application can be

! [DNSDUMPSTER WEBSITE] (/ASSETS/IMG/Posts/Recognition/20241126_000520_87-3.png)
_https: //dnsdumpter.com/_

! [DNSDUMPSTER GRAPH] (/ASSETS/IMG/POSTS/RECOGNITION/20241126_000543_87-4.PNG)
_The best part of this tool is the graph_